README.md, before:

# CTCSpeechRecognition

Work in progress. Implementation of the [Baidu Warp-CTC](https://github.com/baidu-research/warp-ctc) using torch7. Feeds spectrogram data into a neural network using the Torch7 library, training itself with the CTC activation function.

Current implementation runs on CUDA 7.0.

## Installation

To install torch7 follow the guide [here](http://torch.ch/docs/getting-started.html).

You must have CUDA 7.0 (build supported by warp-ctc). To install CUDA:

Download the .run file of your platform [here](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit-70).

Example for Ubuntu 14.04:
```
wget http://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/7_0/Prod/local_installers/cuda_7.0.28_linux.run
```
Then install using below commands.
```
sudo chmod +x ./cuda_7.0.28_linux.run
sudo ./cuda_7.0.28_linux.run
```
When prompted with this message type no. Highly recommended to install the latest driver from the nvidia website of your GPU.
```
Install NVIDIA Accelerated Graphics Driver for Linux-x86_64 346.46? ((y)es/(n)o/(q)uit):
```
Finally modify the .bashrc located at ~/.bashrc, including these lines at the end:
```
export PATH=/usr/local/cuda-7.0/bin:$PATH
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/cuda-7.0/lib64:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
```
Restart the terminal for changes to take effect.

For CUDA implementation (make sure to install these via luarocks first before installing the warp-ctc library):
```
luarocks install cutorch
luarocks install cunn
luarocks install cunnx
```

To install the Baidu warp-ctc library:
```
luarocks install http://raw.githubusercontent.com/baidu-research/warp-ctc/master/torch_binding/rocks/warp-ctc-scm-1.rockspec
```
Other dependencies can be installed via luarocks:

[Audio Library for Torch](https://github.com/soumith/lua---audio): Audio Library for Torch</a>:

Linux (Ubuntu):
```
sudo apt-get install libfftw3-dev
sudo apt-get install sox libsox-dev libsox-fmt-all
```

```
luarocks install https://raw.githubusercontent.com/soumith/lua---audio/master/audio-0.1-0.rockspec
```

[Optim](https://github.com/torch/optim): numeric optimization package for Torch</a>:
```
luarocks install optim
```

[rnn](https://github.com/Element-Research/rnn): Recurrent Neural Network library for Torch7's nn</a>:
```
luarocks install rnn
```

[xlua](https://github.com/torch/xlua): A set of useful extensions to Lua</a>:
```
luarocks install xlua
```

It is also suggested to update the following libraries:
```
luarocks install torch
luarocks install nn
luarocks install dpnn
```

For cudnn you need to create an account, follow install instructions [here](https://developer.nvidia.com/cudnn).

Once you have completed the above installation, Install lua bindings for [cudnn](https://github.com/soumith/cudnn.torch):
```
luarocks install cudnn
```

Main method located at AN4CTCTrain.lua.

Training data is currently the [AN4 Audio database](http://www.speech.cs.cmu.edu/databases/an4/). 

Within the AN4CTCTrain we specify the file path to the an4 dataset which can be downloaded [here](http://www.speech.cs.cmu.edu/databases/an4/an4_raw.bigendian.tar.gz).

Extract the folder and give the filepath in the AN4CTCTrain.lua script.

**Note that the data has to be converted into wav format, a bash script ConvertAN4ToWav.sh has been included to help with this (place this into the an4 directory then run).**

Commit message:

updated readme with experimental notice

README.md, after:

# CTCSpeechRecognition -- Voxforge Branch

WARNING, this branch is very experimental and uses cudnn v5 which has not got stable R5 bindings (is a [WIP](https://github.com/soumith/cudnn.torch/tree/R5)).

First you must have cudnn v5 which can be downloaded and installed [here](https://developer.nvidia.com/cudnn). BEWARE cudnn v5 requires new torch bindings so other scripts depending on cudnn v4 will fail.

At the current time (09/04/16) I have a fork of the cudnn bindings that you can install instead of the standard cudnn bindings using these commands:
```
luarocks remove cudnn
luarocks install https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SeanNaren/cudnn.torch/R5/cudnn-scm-1.rockspec
```

Work in progress. Implementation of the [Baidu Warp-CTC](https://github.com/baidu-research/warp-ctc) using torch7. Feeds spectrogram data into a neural network using the Torch7 library, training itself with the CTC activation function.

Current implementation runs on CUDA 7.5, but can be using anything above 7.0.

## Installation

To install torch7 follow the guide [here](http://torch.ch/docs/getting-started.html).

You must have CUDA 7.0 or above (build supported by warp-ctc). To install CUDA 7.5:

Download the .run file of your platform [here](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads).

Example for Ubuntu 14.04:
```
wget http://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/7.5/Prod/local_installers/cuda_7.5.18_linux.run
```
Then install using below commands.
```
sudo chmod +x ./cuda_7.5.18_linux.run
sudo ./cuda_7.5.18_linux.run
```
When prompted with this message I suggest pressing no. Highly recommended to install the latest driver from the nvidia website of your GPU,
but the driver is compatible if you select yes.
```
Install NVIDIA Accelerated Graphics Driver for Linux-x86_64 352.xx? ((y)es/(n)o/(q)uit):
```
Finally modify the .bashrc located at ~/.bashrc, including these lines at the end:
```
export PATH=/usr/local/cuda-7.5/bin:$PATH
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/cuda-7.5/lib64:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
```
Restart the terminal for changes to take effect.

For CUDA implementation (make sure to install these via luarocks first before installing the warp-ctc library):
```
luarocks install cutorch
luarocks install cunn
luarocks install cunnx
```

To install the Baidu warp-ctc library:
```
luarocks install http://raw.githubusercontent.com/baidu-research/warp-ctc/master/torch_binding/rocks/warp-ctc-scm-1.rockspec
```
Other dependencies can be installed via luarocks:

[Audio Library for Torch](https://github.com/soumith/lua---audio): Audio Library for Torch</a>:

Linux (Ubuntu):
```
sudo apt-get install libfftw3-dev
sudo apt-get install sox libsox-dev libsox-fmt-all
```

```
luarocks install https://raw.githubusercontent.com/soumith/lua---audio/master/audio-0.1-0.rockspec
```

[Optim](https://github.com/torch/optim): numeric optimization package for Torch</a>:
```
luarocks install optim
```

[rnn](https://github.com/Element-Research/rnn): Recurrent Neural Network library for Torch7's nn</a>:
```
luarocks install rnn
```

[xlua](https://github.com/torch/xlua): A set of useful extensions to Lua</a>:
```
luarocks install xlua
```

It is also suggested to update the following libraries:
```
luarocks install torch
luarocks install nn
luarocks install dpnn
```
** If using the voxforge branch do not install cudnn again like below (just install how described at the top of README).
For cudnn you need to create an account, follow install instructions [here](https://developer.nvidia.com/cudnn).

Once you have completed the above installation, Install lua bindings for [cudnn](https://github.com/soumith/cudnn.torch):
```
luarocks install cudnn
```

Main method located at AN4CTCTrain.lua.

Training data is currently the [AN4 Audio database](http://www.speech.cs.cmu.edu/databases/an4/). 

Within the AN4CTCTrain we specify the file path to the an4 dataset which can be downloaded [here](http://www.speech.cs.cmu.edu/databases/an4/an4_raw.bigendian.tar.gz).

Extract the folder and give the filepath in the AN4CTCTrain.lua script.

**Note that the data has to be converted into wav format, a bash script ConvertAN4ToWav.sh has been included to help with this (place this into the an4 directory then run).**
